From hanselman.com. It's Hansel minutes
or weekly discussion with web
developer and technologists. Scott Hanselman
hosted by Carl Franklin. This is
Laura it's Ryan announcing show
number 20 recorded Monday, June 5th, 2006.
Support for Hanselman it's just
provided by COVID Smith tools,
makers of code Smith and
extensible template based code generator
for.net. And now Hansel minutes
listeners get $100 off COVID
Smith professional with coupon code
H M 100. online@covidsmithtools.com. Support
is also provided by exceeds
zip for.net, which lets you
handle zip tar and jesus'
files on FTP servers in
streams and memory and more.
Now get 20% off any
exceed component or suite just
for listening to Hanselman it's
just go to shrink.com/f P
T and use the code
H M dash 20 dash
20. And don't forget to
visit Peter bloom.com. Start with
better controls finish with better
sites online@peterblum.com and.net developers journal
the world's leading.net developer magazine
online at www dot
dot com. In this episode,
Scott discusses Microsoft office 2007.
Hi, this is Carl Franklin and
you're listening once again to
Hansel minutes. I'm here with
Scott Hanselman, of course. And
this week we're talking about
office office 12 office 2007,
right? Scott, absolutely everything you
need to know on the
way to work about office
2007. So where do we
start? I mean, this is
such a huge thing. There's
a lot of topics to
cover and some news it
newsworthy issues. Where do you
want to start here? Well,
let's start with the UI.
I posted a thing recently
about the UI that I
called. Everything, you know, is
different. Our office is very
different. It's freakishly different. It's
totally different. It's it's completely
redesigned reinvented. Re-skinned realization the,
the whole tool bar menu
kind of thing that you're
used to the whole right
click on the toolbar is
kind of gone. Yeah, I
would say the, you could
sum it up by saying,
Hey, where did my menus
go? Yeah, everything is different.
There's a new thing that
they're calling the ribbon and
the ribbon is that area
at the top of the
window, that's got everything that
you would need to use
to talk to the machine,
talk to the system. Just
on another note, I sort
of lost the traditional menus
too. They don't have a
ribbon, but you know, they're,
they're clearly Microsoft is, is
got some ideas with accessibility
after 10 years of, of
menus and Toolbars. Everything is
getting shaken up. So Vista
will look different. I seven
to look different and office
will look different. So what
do you make of this?
I think it's, I think
it's a good thing. I
think that I would like
to see even more dramatic
changes myself. I think that
the windowing metaphor is seeing
it's kind of the end
of its days, but there's
just not much more that
one can do other than
point and click at pictures
as humans. We're kind of
limited, I think, but on
the ribbon, the thing about
the ribbon is that you'll
look at it and it's
not quite a menu. It's
not quite a toolbar. It's
really a series of tabs.
It's like a mode list,
tab dialogue, where there are
a series of menus at
the top home insert page
layout, references, review view. These
are all kind of menus,
but when you click on
one of them, they act
more like tabs. Yeah. Bringing
up a very complicated stacked
toolbar. And the thing about
the toolbar is these toolbar
ribbon pieces that come up
are varying sizes. This isn't
just tabbed toolbars. Each of
the buttons on the toolbar
will be sized according to
how often you would need
to use it. So for
example, the paste button on
the home toolbar is very
large. It's a huge 96
by 96, big icon. It's
impossible to miss styles are
much larger. The find button
is huge while things like
strike out and highlighting are
much smaller buttons. So they're
really taking user interface design
and taking user interface metrics,
actually sitting down with regular
people and seeing what they're
looking for and applying it
directly to the UI before
every piece of functionality and
word was appear. Everything, the
bold button and the italics
button were the same here.
They're really applying that knowledge
about how the users were.
Is this knowledge dynamic? Does
it change as the user
uses, say a particular feature?
Does that button get bigger?
So I have not seen
that to be the case.
I do not believe that
to be the case. I
believe that this is, is
not like the time when
they introduced the chevrons, the
little pieces of menus, the
dynamic moving menus. I think
it was decided that folks
didn't like things moving out
from underneath them. The, if
I understand correctly from, from
talking to the office team
and meeting folks on campus,
the thought was that 80
to 90% of the features
that are requested in office
are already there. They just
can't be found. So rather
than adding a whole bunch
of fantastic new features, even
though there's lots of new
features, they've really brought the
ones that were really amazing
and powerful upfront. My mom
is working on her master's
degree and I, I showed
her for the very first
time how to create a
table of contents, taking a,
you know, a 50 page
thesis document and turning into
a, a really indexed dynamic
document with references footnotes and
a table of contents. She'd
been maintaining the table of
contents manually. This is a
feature that's been around since
office 95, but it's just,
it's buried. It's hard to
find in the new office.
It's not, I would say
there's been a lot of
buried features in office. Don't
you think? Absolutely. Absolutely. Doing,
reviewing, like adding comments and
doing track changes has always
been kind of buried a
little tiny track changes button.
Another example would be the
tiny, tiny, tiny, and most
clicked on button in PowerPoint,
which is the little tiny
start slideshow button right down
on the very lower left
corner. You watch people try
to struggle to hit that
tiny eight by eight button.
That's a big giant thing
on the slide bar, a
ribbon tab. Now there's also
an interesting new thing. And
this is actually of all
the changes. I think this
is the least righteous change.
The, the ribbon bar is
weird, but once you get
it, you'll get it and
you'll go, Whoa. Wow, that
thing I wanted it's right
there. It's almost like it's,
it's thoughtful. It's they've actually
put thought into it. But
the thing that is not
very cool is a new
thing called the Microsoft office
button, which is a big
fat kind of logo of
the Microsoft office system. Big
32 by 32 icon in
the upper left corner. And
you click on it and
that has got, that's your
file menu. That's your open
start, publish print. That's your
button that you click if
you want to do something
right. So you're going to
do something with your document.
You click the office button
problem is I keep double
clicking on this button trying
to close the application that
I'm currently on. And all
it does is show the
menu and make it go
away. So it's the whole
double click in the upper
left corner is gone and
you've got at least in
beta two and you had
this strange office button of,
it's almost like a start
button for office, but everything
is so intuitive and makes
so much sense in the
ribbon bar really feels right.
And then there's this weird
logo in the upper corner
that you have to click
on to do something as
simple as filing file open.
But next to that is
a new thing called the
QA T or the quick
access toolbar. And this is
the, the quick launch, you
know, using Explorer terms. This
is the quick launch bar
for office, which I think
is a little odd if
you think about it, because
we just made that analogy
between that parallel, rather between
the office button and the
start menu right now, we've
got the quick access toolbar
and the quick launch. So
basically in your lower left
hand corner and in windows,
you've got your start button
and your quick launch and
the upper left hand corner,
you've got your office button
and your quick access toolbar.
They're just going to mirror
images of each other. This
is where you put your
save button or any button
you use all the time.
This are where you'd put
buttons that you want to
push. No matter what the
context is of the document
that you're working on. Ironic
to me is that all
these software packages that have
quick launch buttons that go
in the system tray, you
know, to make it easier
to inf you know, faster,
to get the application up
and running well, everybody has
these now and they clog
your system so much with
CPU usage and memory and
all that stuff. That there's
nothing quick about it. I
mean, you've got 10 of
these things loaded up, you
know what I mean? The
whole system slows down. I
am referring not to the
tray in the lower right
hand corner. You mentioned quick
launch button. And I was
responding to that. Okay. The,
this is the kind of
the place that you put
a bunch of stuff. This
is the cut, the most
customizable place in the, in
the system right now, the
things you'll find up there
are undo, redo, print, and
save, but you can right.
Click on any feature on
any feature anywhere in office
and say, Ooh, I like
that. I want to bring
that up to the top
now. That's cool. Yeah, that
is kind of cool. And
interestingly, that actually is not
a toolbar. It lives in
the title bar. So they're
making a lot better use
of their vertical space and
your title bar says the
document name, and the fact
you're running Microsoft word, they'll
put information in that title
bar. So the ribbon actually
takes up a little bit
less space than that in
previous versions of office, which
gives you more room for
your documents, which is pretty
cool. Cool. Now there's a
really interesting document that you
can download that explains this
new UI it's called welcome
to the new ui@strengthstir.com slash
F O L. And this
was on a blog by
a person named Jensen Harris.
And this is a user
interface blog specifically for office.
So this is a, a
user interface designers who worked
on the office team is
working on the office team
and all things, office, user
interface related why we did
this, what we were thinking,
what kind of user interface
analysis and usability analysis we
did cool and Jensen Harris.
His blog is his shrink
stir slash Fon. And I
really tend to tell you
that there's a lot more
openness this time around with
the blogging. Everybody who's involved
in an office product has
got a blog. Developers are
up there, PMs. There's an
access blog at shrink stir
slash FLQ. There's an Excel
specific blog at slash F
O R all of these
things just add up to
better feedback loop, because I
know when they designed office
2003, I didn't go through
any usability testing. Right. Did
you, did you, I didn't
go anywhere and get filmed
since they can't fly me
up to ask me about
where I want a button.
I can sure. Talk to
them on their blog and
they really do answer, which
is pretty cool. Yeah, that
is cool. Yeah. We had
talked before about, we'd had
a back and forth with
the, the outlook team and
the RSS where the fact
that they're putting RSS directly
into outlook and some of
the issues I had with
that blogging totally made that,
made that possible. I was
definitely feeling that, Hey, Scott,
does office look any different
with the arrow interface of
a Vista? And I guess
we're at beta two now
of windows Vista, then on
say windows XP. So I
put windows Vista on my
tablet, PC my tooth, my
Toshiba  and it comes
out and kind of a
slate gray with a, with
the upper part of the
toolbar being transparent. And then
it's bright blue on my
windows XP machine with no
transparency. It doesn't look dramatically
different. I mean, I think
that, I think that arrow
in glass is, is shiny
and wonderful, but, you know,
so yeah, not really That
thrilled about it. There aren't
any other features in the
Vista implementation. They definitely have.
They have feature feature parody
in that, in that respect.
That's cool. And I had
to hack my tablet PC
to get a glass. Anyway,
apparently you need more than
64 megs of video Ram.
Now you need 128 megs
of video Ram in order
to get class. So there's
going to be a haves
and the have nots and
the  while it was
touted as Longhorn ready when
I bought it, apparently not
so much. So I'm a
little bummed about that. And
there's a lot of great
links about Vista and office
at shrinks.com/f O M by
Michael Swanson. Who's collected a bunch
of those links and done,
done my job for me,
which is pretty cool. Great.
Now, have you written any
office extensibility stuff? Have you
written even macros and stuff?
Yeah, I've written macros, but
that's about it. Yeah, The
extent of it. So the
new UI is, is as
extensible, if not more so
as the old one, particularly
the ribbon extensibility allows you
to create all sorts of
new gadgets and things. Unfortunately,
we're still, we can still
do it in VBA. You
can, you can write things
using the Microsoft visual studio
for office pieces, but a
VBA is still the way
to do things. And there's
a really neat article on
ribbon extensibility. It's shrink storage
slash , and there's a
whole new concept of trust.
They're really paranoid about security.
So rather than just loading
up a document and saying,
Hey, it's got macros that
cool with you and, you
know, hitting a button, right?
There's a notion of trusted
locations, which I think is
pretty cool. You actually list
in the interface, a list
of folders that you believe
are trusted, like could be
a network folder or a
folder on your desktop called
trusted, or maybe your, my
documents folder. And if you
trust those places, then you
could download it, download something
from the internet and it
wouldn't be trusted, but if
you copied it directly into
your trusted folder or your,
my documents folder, then it
would be trusted and you
don't have to worry about
all that macro nonsense. It's
a real nice trade off
between usability and security. Do
you see any security holes
in that? I mean, what
about a script that copies
to that folder and executes?
It was kind of scripts
have to be allowed those.
So, yeah, it's totally possible
that someone could potentially find
a trusted folder and copy
themselves there, but you'd have
to have okayed the copy.
So as with all things,
at some point you have
to say, yeah, I think
this is cool. So there's
always a way they could
fool you into, into pushing
a button like that. But
I don't think that someone
would want to trust their
temporary internet files. Yeah. Okay.
Good point. Sure. Now there's
a lot of training going
to be available in 2007
because I tell ya if
you're taking a 2003 class,
now, everything you know is
wrong, right. But up at
shrinks.com/f O U there's some
really nice beta videos explaining
how they're going to do
the training. And I think,
I, I think I talked
about this. I can't remember
who was I talking to
you on the last show,
but it was really neat.
I tried do an existing
shortcut key. You know, you
go like all T for
tools over options. So I
just did it kind of
unconsciously. I just want LTO.
And as I did that,
what's called a super tip,
not a tool tip, but
a super tip. These are
really giant tool tips with
like paragraphs of information. Wow.
Pop popped up and said,
office 2003 compatibility mode, please
continue your office 2003 hot
key. So even though the
menus are gone, it understands
that all T used to
bring up the tools, man,
You know, I'm really glad
they did this because my
concern, when I first heard
about the ribbon was, you
know, all the moms and
dads out there who have
their keystrokes memorized and, and
you know, what's going to
happen to that. And it
was unclear at that time.
So I'm glad they did.
And, and interestingly, they've taken
that to the next level
with another, another thing they
have, if you just push
Ault, like for example, I
had pushed the Microsoft office
button and I got the
big file menu thing, and
I just bumped the alt
button. And interestingly, they put
a little tiny picture of
a keyboard key, a little
key on top of each
of the different visual elements
with like an F over
file and over open S
versa. So just by tapping
it, it'll actually cover the
screen in little tiny keyboard
keys telling you, Oh, you
could push this if you
wanted it. So not only
does it support your old
keystrokes, but it actually promotes
the use of new keystroke
usage, which is something that's
really difficult. A lot of
people waste a lot of
time putting miles on their
mouse when they really could
be speeding that up with
a, with a hot key.
That might be a really
good use of opacity of,
you know, somewhat transparent. I
wonder if there's somewhat transparent
Invista, have you seen that?
So speaking of, of really
good uses of transparency, if,
if you select a chunk
of text, a paragraph or
a couple of words, a
little tiny, transparent toolbar will
pop up kind of fade
in from nowhere and just
appear. And it appears right
where your cursor is. Cause
you don't have, you don't,
you don't want to have
this select text scroll up
and not scroll up. Rather,
you don't want to have
this select text, go to
the toolbar, come back. You
actually want context sensitive, right.
But instead of, instead of
selecting and right clicking, it's
fair to assume that if
someone has just selected text,
they probably want to do
something with it. Why not
give them a tiny, transparent
toolbar with the most commonly
used things, fonts, font size,
a talents, and things like
that. Again, with, with hotkeys,
for all promoting things like
control being in control. I
wow. That's so from a
usability standpoint, word and Excel,
particularly stand out with just
some really amazing leaps and
in, in usability. Sweet. That
sounds great. Now all the,
all the, the Microsoft is
great offices. Awesome. Kind of
Microsoft apologists stuff aside. I
have had some hellish install
experience With the beta software.
Oh my God. I'm going
to have to ghost my
mocks at work back to
a known state because office,
I mean, outlook rather on
my outlook, 12 or outlook,
2007 on my machine at
work is just, it's a
it's carnage. It's absolute carnage.
First, I got into a
situation where every time I
opened outlook, I got the
little MSI thing popping up,
telling me I needed to
install visual studio, 2005 disc.
And then I got into
a thing where every add
in was crashing. So it
would be launch outlook, this
add in crashed shutdown, launch
outlook, this ad in crashed,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
So all of my admins.
So then I went into
the registry and just deleted
all my admins. So outlook
will run for 15 minutes
and then I'll just sit
there and it'll just crash.
Poof. That's what you get
for running beta software, man.
This is why I ghosted
my machine ahead of time.
So I would encourage people
to try this. I mean,
don't wait, this is awesome
stuff from a usability standpoint,
but yeah, it's beta. It's
not our  it's beta,
right? It will probably just
rip the guts out of,
of your system. And if
you're working on your degree
or you have an assignment
due tomorrow, tonight would not
be the time to install
a copy of the office.
But yeah, I'm in a
hellish hellish place right now.
So I'm just going to
bring that back now, on
the other hand at home,
on my home machine, it's
cool in the gang. It's
happy. It's loving, it's wonderful
outlook. As another thing, words
wants one thing, but outlook
man, the new stuff and
outlook, you're going to love
it or you're going to
hate it. I love it.
Yeah. I love it. Category.
Yeah. Flags search folders are
more obvious in the new
TuDu bar on the right
hand side, they're showing you
kind of like your life
at a glance. It's almost
like a mini dashboard Outlook
is the center of my
universe. Really? Yeah, it really
is. And, and, you know,
for all of the, all
of the issues, you know,
little, little annoyances that I
have, even with the older
versions of outlook, it's still,
you know, the inbox is
the sort of the center
of my universe. Yeah. The,
the, the admin thing is
the only thing that's really
frustrating me, but I actually
got an email from the
PM on the admin team
and they're doing their best
to work on compatibility. But,
you know, it's funny. I
kind of feel like a
bit of a schmuck when
I have things like 15
addins running and Explorer or
five, six admins running and
outlook. And I, and I
complain, you know, gosh, why
does not look run with
all this third party code
running in process? You know?
Yeah. I feel a little
bit like a schmuck, cause
I'm saying, Hey, this should
work. But you know, I
understand the problems writing a
really robust add in model,
especially when the add ins
are written in a couple
different versions of.net plus comm
plus plus script. It's pretty,
it's pretty hardcore stuff, but
I'm having no problem at
all at, with my outlook
at home, I'm running Plaxo
and three or four ad
ends and everything is working.
Great. Cool. Now one note
and outlook have got some
pretty neat integration points and
you can read about that
at a shrinker.com/foo foo. We
finally got to the food
shrink stir. I noticed that.
Yeah. Very cool. Yeah. This
is Chris Pratley's blog. This
is a really cool guy.
I actually was able to
sit on a plane with
this guy a couple of
years back. This is the
guy who actually kind of
came up with the idea
of one note we need
to, we need a note
taking application and word's not
it because you know, the
end of to do dot
text. And this is also
interestingly, a guy who's very
interested in language. And he
was one of the fellows
who tried to get Ethiopian
support into word, the next
version of word and Vista,
along with a couple other
people like Michael Kaplan at
Microsoft. So meeting this guy
was amazing. I was just
sitting on the, he actually
lived in Japan and I
was anyway, I was sitting
on the plane with him
and I started talking about
Microsoft. You were from Microsoft.
Well, what do you do?
I'm on the word team
and I'm work on office.
Oh really? Why don't you
do now? I work on
it. It's just one of
these kinds of things like,
and I'm sitting next to
you. This is the guy
who can get Ethiopian support
into word. I was just
totally stoked. He's got a
great blog. It's primarily a
OneNote blog. Now he has
an interesting post on one
note and outlook being best
buddies. Cool. So that's pretty
cool, which is more than
I can say for Adobe
and Microsoft who are not
best buddies right now. Can
you believe this nonsense? What
is up with that? We
talked about this on dotnet
Iraq's yesterday and apparently Adobe
has told Microsoft that they
can't include the free and
available save as PDF API
implementation in, in word. For
some reason they want Microsoft
to either charge for it.
Which to me doesn't make
sense because it costs people
money, right? And, but OB
doesn't get the money or
they want to make it
available as a separate download
if it's free. So apparently
the result is that it's
going to be available. It's
just going to be a
second download. So you'll everyone
in the world will get,
get office. And then they'll
download this little thing, which
doesn't make much sense because
I can make PDFs now
using PDF creator for free
PDF creators available on SourceForge
you install it. It makes
a printer and everyone can
make PDF. The difference is,
and Adobe's beef is that,
you know, all those other
little applications are one thing.
But if it's in the
most popular word processor in
the world, why would anybody
need to buy Adobe? Well,
and it begs the larger
question. What's Adobe fork again,
right? Why, what is the
point of Adobe? Like the
company To make money off
of Acrobat? Yeah. I don't
know. Acrobats still like 500
bucks or something like that,
but I don't understand who
cares if Microsoft does it,
you can go into open
office@openoffice.org and they have save
as PDF and no one's
complained at them. And not
only is the PDF support
free the whole suite. Well,
the save as PDF API
is under Adobe's licensing free
for anybody to implement. Yeah.
They've opened the whole format,
right? The whole PDF formats
open. So I don't know
what the price is. You
can see their paranoia because
whether they're justified or not,
they think that having that
feature in word is enough
because there's millions and millions
of word users all over
the world to, to persuade
people, not to buy Adobe
Acrobat. But your point is,
is good. You know, maybe
it's time for Acrobat the
product to, you know, for
them to find other ways
to make money off of
their publishing PDF stuff. Yeah.
Or just, you know, I
mean, give up, they've opened,
they've opened up the, this
is the thing word has
a new XML format. Right,
right. And you know, you
save your files in the
new version of word and
you'll get a dot doc
X extension. That's the new
format. And by the, you
know, by default, if you
don't have compatibility mode, turn
on, that's what you'll get.
And of course you can
always download add on. So
if you are a 2003
user, you can go now
and get the open tools.
So these are file conversion
tools that would allow you
as a 2003 or previous
user to open up word
2007 XML file format. So
that's real nice for compatibility
purposes, but this is an
open format. Now it's a
crazy, funky XML thing that
is difficult to create. But
if open office wants to
support that, then I'm sure
that they will, right. They
may already, I don't know.
Microsoft has to say, well,
we make better word documents.
It's an open format, but
our editor rocks. Right. And
what I'm hearing is that
Adobe's Acrobat maker Doesn't rock.
No, it sucks actually. And,
and so does their reader,
quite frankly. And that's why
Fox reader is the bomb.
Yeah. Ever since you turned
me on to Fox, it
I've removed Adobe Acrobat from
all of my machines, the
reader. Do you have no
Adobe product anywhere on your
system for making or reading
again? What is it? Oh,
before right. Very uncomfortable. There's
an interesting blog post about
it by Brian Jones of microsoft@shrinker.com
slash F O S I
think that, you know, I
gotta say, I think the
Microsoft guys, or at least
the, the personal people, the
actual people that we talk
to, the bloggers, the ones
with personalities and faces and
names are handling it well,
because they really genuinely seem
to want to provide value.
Right? I mean, I don't
think that Joe program manager
on the word team is
out to stick it to
anybody. He just wants to
make it awesome for, for
his users, users want file
save as PDF. That's you
know how often you want
to do that a couple
of times a week, you
want to make a PDF
and all Adobe is doing
is complaining and making it
so well, I have to
go and download it and
run Acrobat really is, is
an add on to word
to allow you to save
as PDF. That's what Acrobat
is. If you think about
it, right? Yeah, Yeah, absolutely.
But now Mike, Betsy, with
thing I don't understand is
Adobe just agreed to an,
a settlement, which is Microsoft
we'll we'll pull the feature,
but make it available via
a free download. Well, that
means that they have to
go to the Adobe website
and blah, blah, blah. Yeah.
They they're going to put
it on microsoft.com. Really? Yeah.
That's what is making any
sense? So according to this
website here at Brian Brian Jones website,
who's one of the PMs
you'll go to microsoft.com, Microsoft
update or whatever, you'll download
it separately. They just don't
want to integrate it. It
makes sense to me. And
the reason it makes sense
is that I'm coming from
I'm coming from the perception
of Adobe being paranoid, that
just having it there, available
brainless as a standard feature
is going to put Acrobat
out of business. I see
what you're saying. If it's
already there, why even bother
now these by separating it
there's a choice. So now
they have a choice that
they can buy Acrobat or
they can download this feature,
which doesn't, you know, doesn't
have the features of Acrobat.
That's a very good point.
Then they'll say, don't use
this, use our better one.
Exactly. Pay a little bit
of money, yada, yada, yada.
You know, and, and the
thing that's funny is that
all of it might mean
nothing. When you have new
things, like the, the idea
about a web office coming
out, have you seen this?
Yeah. tincture.com/fov. You've got these
folks like Ajax, right? An
Ajax sheet and these different
sites that are saying, well,
you don't really need office.
All you want to do
is fire up a, an
Ajax Cepheid word and do
everything in the browser. Yeah.
It may happen office live.
Right. I don't know. I've
never been a fan of
this just because there's so
much stuff that you can
put on the client that
doesn't make sense on the
web, you know, a spellcheck
dictionary, for example. I mean,
you could do that as
a web server, I suppose.
Well, there's lots of Ajax
defied. Spellcheckers that just go
back and forth to a
server side dictionary. It's possible.
You should take a look
at Ajax, right? Dot com.
Bring it up in Firefox.
You get a full version
of om office, 2005 in
a browser. Wow. Now it
needs to be connected, but
it's, it's a real thing.
I mean, believe me, take
a look at Ajax, right?
Dot com. It'll blow your
mind in Firefox. Only works
in Firefox though. And it's
really not Ajax it's with
the called Zul XUL, which
is a Firefox specific, it's
basically Firefox click once. But
this is that guy who
runs a, what form of
the formerly Lindos Lynn Spire,
Michael Robertson. All right, right. He's
the kind of the rich
madman behind all of that.
And he's off paying Ajax
developers to create applications, to,
to show Google up and
to show, you know, Microsoft.
But, you know, even if
you don't believe that Michael Robertson
is a, his nuts are
not Google, one day will
come out with, you know,
they, they just bought rightly
which isn't, it was an
online word. They may just
come out with something star
office over the web. You
never know. Yeah. There's also
the privacy issue that a,
you know, whatever you're typing
is going back and forth
across the web could be
the potential is there. And
maybe you don't, you know,
maybe you want the privacy
of being on your own
machine, You know? And I
agree that that may be
enough for you and I
to be concerned about, but
I don't think my son
is going to care in
10 years when there's some
entirely connected thing. He won't
be thinking about things like
that. Because by then we'll
have info card, we'll all
have our own personal certificates
implanted behind our ears. And
we'll sit down in the
RFID, we'll talk to the
PC and then it'll all
just be thought from there.
So Scott, let me end
this week show with a
story. That's kind of funny.
I've talked about my mom
on dotnet rocks a few
times. She's sort of a,
she's addicted to the internet,
but she's complete neophyte when
it comes to learning anything,
windows, you know, she, I
could look right at her
and I've done this. I
look right at her and
I said, mom, do you
have a DVD drive? And
she'll look at me and
say, I, I don't know
what you mean. What do
you mean by that? You
know, do you have a
DVD drive? That thing that
we press the button and
the tray comes out. I
have to say that. And
then you put the things
in there. Yeah. So anyway,
so my mother calls me
up the other day and
I'm, it's like 45 minutes
before I have to go
to a function. I have
to be somewhere. And she
calls me up complaining about
my brother who went up
to her house to fix
her computer or something. And
she's saying, Oh, I told
him not to empty the
recycle bin. And he did
it anyway. He's so disrespectful.
I gave him a what?
And I said, well, mom,
you're, you're supposed to empty
the recycle bin from diamond
time. I told him not
to cause I had stuff
in. Yeah. Well, what do
you mean? Well, I find
out that she's recording off
the radio. She records off
the radio into a cool
edit or something. And she
had a program coming up.
She needed to record in
her hard disk was full.
So she didn't know what
to do. So my brother
goes up. First thing he
sees is all this stuff
in the recycle bin. What
does he do? Gets rid
of it. And she says,
no, don't get rid of
that recycled. Don't empty the
Harrison. Then he goes, well,
mom, this is, this is
how you get your space
back. Watch shwoop there it
goes. And then she threw
a fit. So what happens
was she was moving stuff
in the recycle bin, thinking
it was going to give
her more space on her
desk. So I had to
explain that to her. And
then, you know, of course
my brother's an engineer. And
the last thing he's thinking
of is that she's actually
doing that. Right. So I,
I told her I had
to go somewhere, but I'd
buy a hard drive and
bring it over in the
morning. So I did, I
went to staples and I
got a 300 gig Mac
store, hard drive off the
shelf. And the next morning
I go over there and
I pull it out and
I'm looking at it and
it looks kind of funny.
And, and I can't really
figure out, what's funny about
it. The label on the
top is a little fuzzy.
And then I noticed that
there's some Stickum on a
couple of the sides, you
know, like as if a
label had been there and
then been pulled off and
I noticed lots of fingerprints.
And then I see some
wear on the, on the,
on the cable connectors and
a little dust. And I
noticed that there's no jumper
shunt, you know, for the
master slave stuff. So I'm
thinking, this is, this is
used and it was in
the box. So I plug
it in, pull it up.
It's a 20 gig drive.
I think I was buying
a 300 gig drive. It's
a use 20 gig drive.
It happens all the time.
You heard about you even
heard about this. I haven't
heard about this. So people,
people buy the key drives.
This is what I'm assuming
is that somebody bought the
drive, swapped, theirs said brought
it back, said it doesn't
work. You know, they slapped
a label over the old
label. Sure enough. Yeah. I
appealed it back in the
original label for this drive
was underneath. Yep. There's actually
some controversy about this. It's
not clear whether this is,
I mean, it's probably happening
locally, but there's some talk
that it may also have
happened at the factory. Yeah.
I mean that, that would
be more sinister. Oh yeah.
But at any point in
the chain, right. Somebody looks
at it and says, Oh,
that's a fine looking drive.
I want to get, I
want to get me some
of that. Right. And I'll
just swap it with this
old one. And you know
that when all you gotta
do is go to best
buy or, or one of
these little places when they're
just a little too busy,
it's a little too busy
to pay attention. Right. It's
very sad. All they gotta
do is open it up,
look and say, yep, that's
the 300 gig drive. All
right. You know what was
on the drive? No, you
know, there was nothing on
the drive. And the first
thing I did was I,
I looked at it with
like an undelete program to
see if it found any
files and it didn't. And
if I have time, I'm
gonna look at it with
something like I'm on track.
Yeah. Spin, right. Something like
that. Yeah. Something like that.
So recovery software, you might
find a couple copies of
like, you know, staggered versions
of dos for, well, I'm,
hopefully what I'm going to
find is some personal information
about the guy. And then
I can bring that back
to staples and say, look
at your records and see,
you know, that you, that
you sold a 300 gig
drive to this guy. And
I bet you'll find it
in his computer. That's evil.
That's what I want to
do, but I'll let you
know how it turns out
next week. Alright. In the
meantime, I have a good
week and we'll talk to
you next week on canceling.